---
litesite: collection
title: The Gifted Sommelier
date: 2019-01-01
blurb: An undead wine stewards’s job never ends, finding and serving the vintages that help the dead pass on to the other side.
pub: Abyss & Apex Magazine
---
# The Gifted Sommelier

### by Grayson Bray Morris

Into the bowels of our cellar came a knock. We looked up, curious which
of death's hotels would be its source. There, a dozen paces from me: the
door to the Divinika. I took the key from the chain around my neck and
unlocked it. The young maîtresse d'hotel stood in the hall.

"I have need of a new wine steward," she said, clasping her manicured
hands before her. She looked past me, at the bottles lining the cellar
walls, and I saw the weary longing in her eyes.

"I will serve the Divinika," I told her. "And you, my lady." Her eyes
met mine. She understood me.

Alas, my first days in her employ left me no time to help her. A nearby
battle in the ongoing war flooded us with guests; we had to book them
seven to a room. Each night I served a hundred men their perfect
vintage, and their number slowly dwindled. At last the local holy days
came, bringing a temporary ceasefire, and we spent a rare day alone in
the Divinika. I passed the time in our catacombed archives.

A sommelier's task rarely challenges. Most guests die of disease or age
in a nearby village, and there is no need to search for their names. It
is enough to keep up with local gossip. Soldiers are easier still, even
foreign ones; like all the newly dead, they instantly forget who they
were, but the tags around their necks identify them. Not so with my new
mistress. I knew just three things about her: She was well bred. Her
speech and dress were eighteenth century. And she had, in life, been
local: such are the rules of succession.

That evening I dined with my mistress, and if she was disappointed that
I served her water instead of wine, she did not show it.

"I understand why they leave, all my sommeliers," she said over crêpes
Suzette. "So tempting, among your secret records, to look for one's own
name." Her eyes searched mine. "Will you leave me, too, sommelier,
before I find release?"

"No, my lady," I said. I could do no more to ease her despair. It is the
nature of my service that I may not question, only observe; I may not
regale, only reply.

The great bell in the foyer chimed. My mistress rose and I followed her
to the entrance. A young woman stood on the marble steps, covered in
bruises and blood. I was not surprised to see her. The sous-chef had
told me yesterday how the women in Meresville whispered of the young
baker's violent temper when they gathered on market day. How they feared
for madame Arandelle; her husband's rage had already cost her a bottom
tooth.

"Sommelier," my mistress said in a voice soft as rain, "find her vintage
quickly." I bowed and headed for the cellar.

I brought the glass to the dining hall, where my mistress was gently
combing the girl's freshly washed hair. Her bruises had already
vanished. I spoke her name and held the copper liquid out to her.

"Drink," my mistress gently urged. The girl took the goblet and drank.
Her features softened as the wine warmed her; then she turned a beatific
face to us. My mistress reached out to stroke the girl's hair before she
faded into nothingness.

"I know not why, but they are hard for me," my mistress whispered. "The
battered ones."

My heart leapt, but I kept my face impassive, lest I disturb her in her
grief. My mistress had just given me a fourth clue.

Our guests remained sparse the next day, affording me hours in my
archives. From the six hundred and twenty souls I had earlier picked, I
culled those who had not known abuse. It is heartening, at forks like
these, to see how few names remain. Mankind is not entirely bereft of
grace.

The war resumed with broad and terrible vigor; it was twenty days before
I could spare the hours to dine with my mistress again and await another
clue. For several nights more I came away empty. Then the weather turned
and the first snows fell.

"My neck aches so," she said at our table by the fire, "on cold nights
like this."

I excused myself and returned with a glass of deep garnet. "Your wine,
Lady Magdalen Bouvrit."

Her eyes grew wide as her past rushed back in with her name. Her abusive
husband Edouard. The kick down the stairs that broke her neck and
silenced two lives at once.

She took the goblet in both hands and held it up to the light. "Have you
never sought your own vintage?" she asked as tears ran down her face.
"Do you never tire of this existence?"

My mortal life is centuries behind me; what comes after drinking one's
own wine, I do not know. But I have never tired of seeking clues and
solving riddles. I still savor the fleeting look between drinking and
dissipation, that look which speaks of answers to long-held questions.
Perhaps someday I will long to know those answers. But not today.

"No," I answered gently. "Now drink."

"Thank you, sommelier," she whispered, and she drained the glass.
