---
litesite: collection
title: A Whole Leaf, Dark and Red
date: 2019-01-01
blurb: A story of loss seen from the five-year-old mind, when the wall between magic and mundane is still porous.
---
# A Whole Leaf, Dark and Red {.has-subtitle}

by <a href="DOMAIN_URL_PH">Grayson Bray Morris</a>

The girl sits in the moist dirt of the wooded lot next door and makes
cities out of acorns and leaves. At night the people in her cities come
up through the laundry hamper in her closet. After her parents say good
night and close her door, she goes to the closet and opens the hamper
for them. She drapes a shirt-sleeve over the edge so they can climb
down. She can hear them milling about before they march to her bedroom
door and under the crack. When she wakes in the morning, they are gone.
And everything in the house is as it should be. Her people are careful
explorers. And kind ones: they always leave her a bit of wet leaf to say
thank you.

Today she is making them a tower. She carefully breaks twenty-six twigs
to the length of her hand. Then she punches precise holes into the damp,
sloping ground and slides the twigs into them, one by one. From the
tower her people will be able to look at the stars. She doesn't know how
to build them a telescope but she knows her people are clever. And they
have seen her own telescope by her window, each night since her fifth
birthday. They are small enough to climb inside and discover its
secrets.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[The next morning]{.newthought} is filled with rain. After breakfast the
girl's grandmother folds laundry while the girl's mother and the new
baby nap. The girl builds her people a treasure chest using matchsticks
and glue. She has to build it in her closet or Alice Whitney might ruin
it when she comes to play that afternoon. Inside it she leaves a piece
of mirror she took from the bathroom trash can, and the spring from a
ballpoint pen that ran out of ink. Telescopes need mirrors, and she
thinks they might need springs. She also leaves a bit of bread for her
people.

Alice Whitney doesn't have a baby at home. When she comes to play the
girl's mother gives them skeins of yarn for pretend babies. They wrap
their pretend babies in blankets and rock them to pretend sleep. When
the sun comes out the women take the real baby for a walk in his pram,
and the girl and Alice Whitney put their pretend babies in her wagon and
walk behind them. She wants to go check on her people in the woods but
it's better if she doesn't while she's with Alice Whitney. Alice Whitney
isn't careful about where she puts her feet.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[The next morning]{.newthought} the girl checks the treasure chest. The
mirror and the pen spring are gone. There's a bit of wet leaf on her
telescope, and this is how she knows her people understood what the
mirror and the pen spring were for.

The bread is still there. Her people never take the food she leaves for
them. She wonders what they eat instead, and whether she could eat it,
too. Perhaps they eat leaves.

Yesterday's rain has caved in their tower. The girl carefully rebuilds
it. She doesn't see the mirror or pen spring but she doesn't know where
they keep their laboratory.

At dinner she tells the baby about telescopes. He stares at her from his
bassinet, listening.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[The next morning]{.newthought} the baby is dead. He died in the night
and it's no one's fault. Everyone is very sad. The girl is sad, too,
especially for the baby. He wasn't here very long.

The girl wants to check on her people but today they will have to do
without her. Tonight they will know why she didn't come, when they climb
through her hamper. Perhaps they already know.

The pastor is in the kitchen with her parents. The girl's grandmother
takes her up to see the baby. His room is very quiet, and he is small
and still in his crib. The girl touches his cheek. It is soft and cool.

The girl's grandmother says let's go downstairs, and I'll make you some
breakfast. The girl pushes away from the crib and sees a wet leaf on the
floor beneath it. A whole one, very dark and red.

This is how she knows her people are sad about the baby, too.

She takes the leaf down to her mother. Her mother smiles and says it's
wonderful that she has such kind friends, and to please tell them thank
you.

The girl says she will.
