---
litesite: collection
title: In Which Archibald Wiggers Deeply Regrets His Second Trip to Manfred Mussholm's Curio Shop in the Woods
date: 2019-01-01
blurb: Archie gets more than he bargained for when he and his little pet Lola go to stock up on her favorite treats.
---
# In Which Archibald Wiggers Deeply Regrets His Second Trip to Manfred Mussholm's Curio Shop in the Woods {.has-subtitle}

by <a href="DOMAIN_URL_PH">Grayson Bray Morris</a>

Archie drove down an increasingly winding, increasingly bumpy road that
eventually dwindled to a trail and then simply a series of car-sized
gaps between the trees. This did not unsettle him as much as it had
three days earlier, when he first made the trip to Manfred Mussholm's
curio shop just outside of town.

Beside him, his little grorg Lola pressed her nose to the window and
happily wagged her tails at the familiar landscape. Archie tried not to
feel jealous. They'd gotten off to a rocky start on Friday; Archie had
never been especially skilled with living things. He'd settled her in
her quilt-lined cage in the living room corner, but the poor thing had
turned sickly violet and keened like her heart was broken. After feeding
her nearly all the special treats Mussholm had thrown in for free,
Archie had finally given up on establishing boundaries and brought her
into his bed. She'd turned a blissful butter-yellow, nestled all seven
segments of her furry little body against his neck, and fallen into a
deep and satisfied sleep. He'd been so grateful for the respite that he
hadn't even minded waking on Saturday to find his face covered in a
fine, sticky web of grorg saliva. Not much, anyway.

When he got up to relieve himself and commanded her not to follow, she'd
turned a heartbreaking shade of bruised gray; he'd relented instantly,
which afforded him the singular experience of urinating with a ball of
fur wrapped around his head, twelve soft paws clamped to his cheeks and
a forked purple tongue flicking past his eyes to gently wet both
nostrils. Something inside him had melted then. From then on, he and
Lola had been inseparable. He'd even bought one of those cloth baby
slings to carry her in while he went about his chores, so he wouldn't
step on her tails as she clung to his calves. By Monday morning there
was no question: Lola would, quite obviously, be accompanying him to
work.

Mussholm had told him grorgs were highly social animals, but Archie
hadn't realized he meant quite *this* social. (Frankly, Mussholm's words
had gone in one ear and out the other; Archie's therapist had pronounced
it time he move up to bonding with a pet, and Lola was the only creature
in the shop that hadn't horrified him.) Thank goodness he hadn't. In
their seventy-two hours together he'd grown hopelessly attached to the
exuberant furball. Over lunch, as she eagerly sampled every item on his
cafeteria tray only to find it wanting, he'd decided to return to
Mussholm's shop after work and lay in a giant supply of her special
treats. "Would you like that, Lola-bird?" he'd cooed at her as she lay
sprawled on his desk and he scratched her furry belly. "Would that make
my little girl happy?" She'd turned bright green in purring approval.

Now, inching through the forest, they passed several of Mussholm's
inexplicable inventions: a six-foot circular clearing where it
constantly rained; an eighty-foot henhouse on stilts, which dropped
egg-shaped rocks at unpredictable intervals; a patch of light-emitting
sunflowers. ("The future of solar power," Mussholm had told him last
time.) Lola watched all these pass by in silence&mdash;perhaps as perplexed
as Archie regarding their merits&mdash;but she barked excitedly as they
passed an unoccupied Land Rover driving itself in lazy figure-eights.
"Who's a fierce little grorg?" Archie cooed. "Who's protecting Papa from
the big bad car?" He patted her head and she jumped onto his arm, then
wrapped herself around his neck and began to purr. Archie sighed in a
blissful content he'd never realized he was missing, before Lola. As
always, his therapist had been right.

The shop lurched into view and Archie parked. Mussholm was sitting on
the porch, a preposterously bearded man wedged among towering piles of
wooden crates in apparent comfort, smoking a giant meerschaum pipe
shaped like a Viking warrior astride a winged, fanged octopus. "Evenin',
Wiggers," Mussholm boomed as he stood up. "I gotcha order ready'n
waitin'." He strode inside. Archie tucked Lola into the baby sling and
hurried after him. The meerschaum Viking waggled an alarmingly spiked
club as Archie scurried past.

The shop quivered with a steady and pungent hum, punctuated at unnerving
intervals by a screech from one of Mussholm's other creatures. Lola
wriggled her head and front four paws out of the sling. Archie looked
left and right, but Mussholm was nowhere to be seen. He picked his way
to the register, taking special care to evade the writhing display
labeled OMNIVOROUS GLOWWORMS. DO NOT UNDERFEED. A helpful arrow marked
ESSENTIAL ACCESSORIES pointed to a rack of chainmail gloves.

Mussholm reared up like a hairy pearl expelled from the deep and thumped
a wooden crate onto the counter. "There. That'll last ya a good while."

"How long, exactly?" Archie hoped to keep his trips here to a minimum.

Mussholm cocked his head, as if in deep calculation. "A good, long
while," he finally said. "Hey, ya want summa this?" He pointed to two
triangles of clammy dough on a tiny plate beside the register.

Archie squinted. "What is it?"

"Quantum-coupled dim sum."

"Qua... what?"

"Here, watch." Mussholm popped one triangle into his mouth. "Don' wath
*me*, wath IT," he lisped wetly, pointing at the second triangle. Archie
turned his attention to the plate.

Before his eyes, the second piece of dim sum began to rip apart, as if
it were being mauled by some unseen force. Archie turned a horrified
look to Mussholm, who was just swallowing.

"Goes through the whole digestive process, right there on the plate.
Ends up manure. Great as fertilizer. Ya gotta garden?"

"No!" Archie said hastily, repressing a furious urge to gag. The second
dim sum began to bubble. Lola growled and wriggled another two paws
free. She was turning ominously orange; Archie patted her soothingly.
"It's all right, Lola-bird. It won't hurt you." He backed up a step,
just to be sure.

"Well, take some anyway. I'm rarin' fer feedback." Mussholm reached
beneath the counter.

"No, thank you, I&mdash;"

Mussholm straightened and dumped six cardboard containers into Archie's
crate. "Tell ya what, I'll throw in a coupla these new forks for ya,
too." He reached back under the counter.

A screeching voice drowned out Archie's protests. "How dare you put your
hands on me, you pea-brained buffoon!" Mussholm snatched back his hand
and winced.

"Damn fool arrogant cutlery," he growled. "I was goin' fer elegant, but
I mispronounced it. I gotta remember not to eat while I work." He sucked
on his injured finger.

Just then the second dim sum popped, spattering everything in a
three-foot radius. Archie whimpered; Lola growled. Mussholm leaned
forward to wipe Archie's face. "Still workin' out the kinks," he
apologized. "Might need to tone down the garlic." To underscore his
point, Mussholm belched extravagantly. Archie reeled back. Lola turned
vermilion and let out a yawling caterwaul, then launched herself from
the sling and sailed over Mussholm's counter.

"Lola!" Archie cried. All the shop's creatures&mdash;the voodoo crow's-head
skeleton, the feathered boa constrictor, the porcupine blow-rat, and a
dozen other impossible, awful things&mdash;erupted in a violent cacophony.
Lola, now a pulsing fire-engine red, hit the floor and ran.

"Don't let her make it out that door!" Mussholm shouted.

Archie lunged for her, but he was too late. She bounded through the door
and toward the woods. He leapt after her, but his shoe caught on one of
the front porch crates and he fell. Mussholm jumped over him and
thundered down the steps.

A car horn sounded. "Oh, no," Mussholm moaned. "We can't let her reach
my Rover! I've just gotten him workin'!"

Archie was incensed. How could Mussholm think of his insufferable
artwork at a time like this? "My Lola doesn't chase cars, I'll have you
know," he shouted, though he had no idea whether she did or not. "She
won't scratch your precious vehicle."

"That ain't the problem!" Mussholm shouted back.

Archie heard Lola's fevered barking, then the loud roar of an engine. An
instant later little red Lola burst into view, the car in hot pursuit.
Mussholm was close behind them. "Rover!" he bellowed. "That ain't even a
dog! You're only supposed to chase dogs!"

As Archie watched Mussholm's infernal car gain on his beloved pet, some
heretofore unfathomed ferocity reared up in him. He leapt up from the
porch floor, oblivious to the pain in his ankle, and wrenched the spiked
club from the meerschaum man's hand. "Get away from her, you brute!" he
screeched as he barreled toward the Rover. He swung the club as hard as
he could at the driver-side window and it shattered with a gratifying
crash. The Rover jerked to a stop. "Aha!" Archie crowed, out of breath
and heaving. "That'll teach you to pick on small, defenseless
creatures!"

The car revved menacingly and circled around to face him. Archie
suddenly remembered he was a mild-mannered archival clerk with little in
the way of combat experience. His mouth fell open and he nearly dropped
the club.

The car revved again, then sprang at him.

Suddenly there was Lola, sailing through the air, into the Rover's
broken window. She landed on the steering wheel, wrenching it with her
momentum, and the Rover swerved, missing Archie by inches. Oh, how he
loved that little grorg. Protecting Papa from the big bad car, indeed!

But now the Rover was lurching back and forth, whipping its unwelcome
passenger through the cabin. His girl was still in danger! Archie raised
the club and roared after them.

"Tender are the enemy's feet!" the meerschaum Viking bellowed from the
porch. Oh, yes, quite&mdash;Archie lunged and pop! There went the left rear
tire. The car reeled and Lola yowled. Archie scrambled up from the mossy
dirt and took out a second tire, then a third. The Rover revved
voraciously, but went nowhere. Archie stomped around to its nose,
grunting with a primal, parental rage so alien he no longer knew his own
name, and raised the club with both hands. He brought it down, again and
again, on the Rover's hood. And then he fainted.

He came to on Mussholm's porch. The spiked club was back in the
meerschaum man's hand. Lola lay pressed along Archie's chest, gray as
ash, her nose resting on his chin, her front four paws warm against his
neck. When she saw he was awake, she flushed sunbeam yellow and licked
his face with abandon.

An extraordinary thought struck Archie as he tenderly scratched his
little grorg's head. He'd done it, hadn't he? Learned to love someone
utterly, completely, and without reservation? His therapist would be so
proud.

The door banged open and Mussholm came out with Archie's crate of
treats, plus two more. "Sorry 'bout that, Wiggers," he said as he strode
toward Archie's car. "I threw in some extra dim sum and a bunch more
forks, to make it up to ya. Plus a dozen glowworms. They do love my dim
sum."

The meerschaum Viking reached out his free hand and helped Archie up.
Archie limped to his car&mdash;his ankle hurt like the devil now&mdash;while
Mussholm stacked the crates on the back seat, then came around and
leaned in the driver-side window. "No charge today, Wiggers. On account
of all the trouble."

"Thank you," Archie said stiffly as he turned the key in the ignition.
Then, because he was himself again and hated seeming rude: "Sorry I
ruined your artwork."

"Don't worry yerself about that." Mussholm clapped him on the shoulder.
"I'll have him fixed up in no time." As Archie backed away, Mussholm
waved. "Lemme know how ya like that dim sum!"

Archie turned the car roadward as quickly as the uneven ground would let
him. As soon as the trees obscured the shop, he stopped and unloaded the
two extra crates Mussholm had given him. Let the man's appalling Rover
deal with his omnivorous glowworms and obnoxious forks and horrid,
horrid dim sum. "Lola, sweetheart," he said as he climbed back in and
fastened his seat belt, "what say we find you some *other* special treat
to enjoy, after these are gone? Something one might buy at the corner
store?"

The little grorg licked his hand and turned a heartfelt shade of green.
